DRAFT

Greetings:

On 23 July 2014, the New York Department of Financial Services
("NYDFS") issued a request for comment on proposed rule-making
regarding virtual currencies.

Our company, Bitquant Research Laboratories (Asia) Ltd. is a Hong Kong
based company which provides open source analytics and quantitative
consulting services to financial institutions regarding products and
services surrounding cryptocurrencies.  Although we have no current
business operations in the state of New York, we share the goals of
the NYDFS in creating a well regulated and vibrant industry
surrounding virtual currencies, and we welcome the Department's
efforts to solicit opinions in this matter.

We believe that the state of New York has a legitimate interest in
protecting the residents of the state of New York from both consumer
fraud and illicit use of virtual currencies to further illegal
activities such as money laundering, and we are very interested in
creating a proper regulatory system for the use of virtual
currencies. 

It is therefore of great regret that we find that NYDFS proposal is
fundamentally flawed.  It is not merely the details of the proposal
that are problematic, but the entire regulatory philosophy of
extending a licensing system suitable for money transmission
businesses to any business handling virtual currency.  Not only is
creating such a licensing system not in the public interest, we firmly
believe that it exceeds the authority of the NYDFS, and would not
survive a legal challenge in either Federal or New York state court.

In this letter we explain why as a matter of law, NYDFS simply cannot
take the regulatory approach that it is taking, and propose
constructive alternatives.

THE REGULATORY APPROACH OF TREATING ALL VIRTUAL CURRENCY BUSINESSES AS
MONEY TRANSMITTERS PROPOSED BY NYDFS IS FUNDAMENTALLY FLAWED

Our impression is of the proposal that NYDFS is taking is to take the
licensing system which has been developed for money transmitters and
apply it to all businesses using virtual currency.  However, this
fails to take into consideration that the licensing system for money
transmission is one that is specifically authorized by both Congress
in 18 USC 1960 and Article 13-B New York Banking Law.  Absent this
specific legislative authorization by both Congress and the New York
state legislature, we believe that both Federal and state courts would
find an effort by the NYDFS to extend a licensing system designed for
money transmitters to all virtual currency businesses to be a
violation of the dormant commerce clause and ultra vires with respect
to the Financial Services Law of the state of New York.

The United States has a constitutional system which gives the Federal
government the power to regulated interstate and international
commerce, and through the dormant commerce clause attempts to balance
the need for national uniformity of legal standards with the
legitimate interest of the state to perform such actions as to protect
the consumer from fraud and to prevent funding of illegal activities.

The licensing system used for money transmtters is unusually
restrictive because of the potential that money transmission could be
used as a means to perform and fund illegal activity.  To prevent
this, Congress has determined that the money transmission business
should be highly regulated through the use of a strict licensing
regime, and authorized invididual states through 18 USC 1960 to
implement such a licensing system.  Under the Federal system of
government, once Congress has made a determination that state action
is authorized, there can be no further interstate commerce issues, and
if the proposed regulation included only money transmitters, there
would be no legal issue with them.

However, the proposed regulations extend beyond money transmission
businesses to all businesses handling virtual currencies.  This not
only includes businesses for which the Federal government has remained
silent on, but businesses for which the Federal government has
explicitly concluded do not require licensing as money transmitters. 

As such, they are imperissibly broad and if extended to all virtual
currency businesses operating outside the state of New York, they
would not survive a Federal court challenge as they introduce undue
restrictions on interstate commerce in violation of the dormnant
commerce clause.  In addition they exceed the authority of the NYDFS
under New York state law by imposing a license system on non-consumer
businesses and of businesses which are subject to regulation by the
Attorney-General under the Martin Act.

Because these regulations are legally problematic, we respectfully
propose that the proposed regulations be limited to businesses, such
as money transmitters, which with Congressional authorization are
already subject to regulation by the NYDFS, and we also proposed that
the primary regulatory mechanism for virtual currency regulation for
businesses not already subject to NYDFS regulation be the anti-fraud
provisions of the Martin Act.

THE PROPOSED REGULATION VIOLATES THE DORMANT COMMERCE CLAUSE BY PLACING
UNDUE RESTRICTIONS ON INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL COMMERECE ON
BUSINESSES FOR WHICH CONGRESS HAS NOT AUTHORIZED STATE ACTION

Under the Federal system of the United States, the power to regulate
commerece between the states as well as commerce with foreign nations
is an exclusive power of the United States Federal government.  Under
the principle of the "dormnant commerce clause", where Congress has
chosen not to act, states are limited in their authority to propose
restrictions on interstate commerce.  This division of power is
settled law and has been reflected in a long line of courts cases
beginning with Gibbons v. Ogden, 22 U.S. 1 (1824) and extending
through Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway Company v. Illinois, 118
U.S. 557 (1886).

This is no mere legal technicality as it insures that there are
uniform rules of commerce within the United States.  This is
particularly important for companies domiciled in foreign
jurisdictions who find it necessary to deal with one regulatory system
within the United States rather than 50 different regulatory systems.
Placing interstate commerce under Federal jurisdiction is also
important as it allows the United States to coordinate activities with
foreign nations and to negotiate trade and services agreements with
other countries that are in the best interest of the American people.

With respect to the transmission of ordinary money, the dormant
commerce clause is not applicable as Congress has under 18 USC 1960
explicitly authorized states to issue licenses for money transmission
businesses and has made failure to do so a Federal crime.  In New York
state, the laws concerning the regulation of money transmission is
covered under Article 13-B of the Banking Law.  Where a virtual
currency business acts as a money transmission business under Federal
law, the NYDFS clearly has regulatory authority, and there are no
dormant commerce clause issues.

However, the proposed regulations go much broader than the
Congressional authorization and require licenses for businesses which
use virtual currrency which are not part of a money transmission
business and hence are not covered by 18 USC 1960.  As examples of
businesses which would be impermissibly be subject to NYDFS
regulation, consider a hedge fund that invests in bitcoin, a service
that offers secure wallets for clients, or a business that uses
virtual currencies as a intermediate mechanism for converting between
two fiat currencies for the same customer.  None of these businesses
would be money transmitting businesses, but would require a NYDFS
license under the proposed regulations.  In addition, the because of
the broad language of the regulation, the proposed rule would stifle
businesses which have not yet been conceived, and create
administrative chaos as businesses would face 50 conflicting state
rules rather than a single rule issued at the Federal level.

In fact, these regulations so broad that they include businesses in
which the Federal government has explicitly and clearly stated are not
subject to money transmission law or Federal restrictions.
FIN-2013-G001 issued by FinCEN on 18 March 2013, for example provides
detailed guidance as to when a transaction is considered a "money
transmission" and excludes a number of situations such if a broker or
dealer accepts and transmits funds solely for effecting a purchase or
sale of real currency or other commodities.  Where these regulations
require a license in areas where the Federal government has either
explicitly determined to fall outside Congressionally authorized
regulation, or where Congress by its silence has implicitly failed to
include a business within a regulatory system, the NYDFS regulations
must be subject to a dormant commerce clause analysis.

The current law regarding the dormant commerce clause first involves a
test to see if the proposed state action is discriminative toward
businesses outside of the state.  If it is then would be reviewed
under the tests of Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising
Commission, 432 U.S. 333 (1977), in which strict scrutiny will be
applied and the regulation will only be allowed if there is no less
restrictive method of insuring that the regulation advances a state
interest.

If the proposed state action is not discriminative, then the standard
used would be Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc. 397 U.S. 137 (1970).  Under
this standard a restriction on interstate commerce would be found to
be in violation of the dormant commerce clause if the burdens on
commerce are clearly in excess of the local legimate state interests
advanced.  Specifically, the Supreme Court has ruled that where the
state asserts a public health and safety rationale for a regulation,
the Court will review whether in fact the regulation will advance the
stated purposes of the regulation ( see Raymond Motor Transportation,
Inc. v. Rice, 434 U.S. 429 (1978) and Kassel v. Consolidated
Freightways Corp. 450 US 662 (1981)) rather than relying on the
"rational basis" test under the equal protection clause which applies
for regulation that does not have an impact on interstate commerce.

We assert that the regulations proposed by the NYDFS in their current
form are so clearly in conflict with settled law that should the NYDFS
attempt to enforce these regulations against any businesses outside of
the state of New York which are not currently subject to licensing,
they they will be almost immediately be challenged in Federal court
where they would be struck down.

These regulations are clearly discriminative against out-of-state
bitcoin businesses.  The requirement that any one doing business with
non-US entities conduct enhanced due-dilegence is clearly
discriminative on its face for entities outside of the United States.
In addition, a business that is an another country or another state,
would find it inconvenient and burdensome to interact with officials
within the state of New York, and would difficult or impossible to,
for example, attend a licensing hearing in person or challenge an
administrative decision in state court.  In such a situation, the
Federal courts will apply strict scrutiny and will only allow the
regulation if it can be shown that no other regulatory system will
work.  

While consumer protection and prevention of money laundering is
clearly a legitimate state interest, we do not believe that the state
of New York can demonstrate in Federal court that no other system of
regulation will advance these interests.  The state of New York can
use consumer fraud statutes against those that seek to defraud the
residents of the state of New York, and there is absolutely no
evidence that simply using existing laws on consumer protection will
not achieve the interest in consumer protection.  

With regard to prevention of money laundering, the regulations
proposed by NYDFS including businesses that the Federal government
through FinCEN has explicitly concluded should *not* be regulated as
money transmission businesses.  In addition, while virtual currrencies
have been used for illicit purposes, Federal agencies have been
extremely aggressive and successful at closing down such activities,
and there has been no suggestion that an intrusive and extensive use
of licensing would prevent money laundering.  Finally we point the
Federal government created alternative systems for prevention of money
laundering including registration of money service businesses and
mandatory reporting of suspicious activity rather than licensing.  In
cases, where a virtual currency business is subject to a less
restrictive Federal requirement, it would be extremely difficult to
provide a convincing argument that the NYDFS state regulations are the
least restrictive necessary.

Even if the regulation were non-discriminative, they would impose
massive and unreasonable burdens on interstate and international
commerce.  Because no rationale has been advanced as to how these
regulations would in fact protect consumers or prevent money
laundering, we belive that non-discriminative regulations would be
found to be overly and unnecessarily intrusive for the same reasons
that discriminative regulations would be found to be problematic.

It is important to note here that the Federal courts would not merely
subject the regulations to a "rational basis" standard in which the
state of New York could advance a speculative reason why these
regulations would advance consumer protection or prevent money
laundering, but would subject the regulations to further scrutiny and
"balancing test" in which the state of New York would be compelled to
explain how these regulations in fact advance consumer protection or
prevent money laundering and whether the real benefits provided by the
regulation outweigh the substantual burdens imposed on interest
commerce.

Given that the regulations conflict with the guidance given by FinCEN,
we believe that the regulations would clearly fail these tests, and be
ruled unconstitutional by the Federal courts.

THE NYDFS DOES NOT HAVE AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE LICENSING OF NON-CONSUMER
BUSINESSES 

There are additional legal difficulties in this proposal under New
York State law.  Under Section 104 of the Financial Services Law, the
financial products and services which are subject to regulation by the
superintendent include

  (2) "Financial product or service" shall mean: (A) any financial
  product or financial service offered or provided by any person
  regulated or required to be regulated by the superintendent pursuant
  to the banking law or the insurance law or any financial product or
  service offered or sold to consumers except financial products or
  services: (i) regulated under the exclusive jurisdiction of a
  federal agency or authority, (ii) regulated for the purpose of
  consumer or investor protection by any other state agency, state
  department or state public authority, or (iii) where rules or
  regulations promulgated by the superintendent on such financial
  product or service would be preempted by federal law; and

Financial products and services that are not offered or sold to
consumers are not subject to regulation by the NYDFS and therefore the
DFS has no power to compel licensing of a business where there is no
pre-existing law which allows for such licensing.

THE NYDFS DOES NOT HAVE AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE LICENSING OF BUSINESSES
SUBJECT TO THE MARTIN ACT

In addition to an the consumer product exclusion, the NYDFS does not
have authority over products "regulated  for  the  purpose  of
consumer or investor protection by any other state agency, state
department or  state  public authority".  This is defined in the
section 2-A which states

  (2-a) A "financial product or service regulated for the purpose of
  consumer or investor protection": (A) shall include (i) any product
  or service for which registration or licensing is required or for
  which the offeror or provider is required to be registered or
  licensed by state law, (ii) any product or service as to which
  provisions for consumer or investor protection are specifically set
  forth for such product or service by state statute or regulation and
  (iii) securities, commodities and real property subject to the
  provisions of article twenty-three-a of the general business law,
  and (B) shall not include products or services solely subject to
  other general laws or regulations for the protection of consumers or
  investors.

This section excludes securities, commodities, and real property which
are subject to the Martin Act from regulation by the NYDFS and places
them under the jurisdiction of the Attorney-General.  The Martin Act
is primarily an anti-fraud statute that gives the Attorney-General
extensive powers to combat securities and commodities fraud, but does
not impose any licensing requirements on the sales of securities and
commodities.  As cryptocurrencies are considered by many jurisdictions
including Hong Kong to be a "virtual commodity," we believe that it is
clear that under New York state law, the primary enforcement mechanism
against fraud belongs to the Attorney General, and that the NYDFS does
not have the legislative authority to impose licensing requirements on
virtual currency businesses.

LICENSING SHOULD ONLY APPLY TO BUSINESSES SUCH AS MONEY TRANSMITTERS,
WHICH ARE ALREADY UNDER NYDFS JURISDICTION.  FOR OTHER BUSINESSES THE
PRIMARY MECHANISM FOR INVESTOR AND CONSUMER PROTECTION SHOULD BE THE
STATE MARTIN ACT AND THE PRIMARY MECHANISM FOR ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING
SHOULD BE THE FEDERAL BANK SECRECY ACT

It is our view that under New York state law and United States Federal
law, a general licensing system for virtual currency businesses is
unworkable and would be subject to court challenges which would
succeed in undermining such a system.  

We believe that it would be a waste of time and effort to introduce
regulations of such weak legal foundation only to have them be
overturned later.  Such a path would not only subject bitcoin
businesses to legal uncertainty, but would also be detrimental to the
shared goal of consumer protection and money laundering prevention.

To the extent that new regulation is needed for businesses that are
already subject to licensing, such as money transmitters, we believe
that the proposed regulations add administrative clarity, and we do
not object to the proposed regulations provided that they are limited
to businesses which are already under the administrative jurisdiction
of the DFS.

We therefore come up with the following recommendations:

1) We strongly recommend that Section 200.3(a) be amended to read

  No Person may in the course of performing a transaction subject to
  regulation by this agency under the laws of the state of New York
  shall without a license obtained from the superintendent as provided
  in this Part, engage in any Virtual Currency Business Activity.

The effect of this change would be to empower businesses which are
already under NYDFS regulation to undertake bitcoin activities, while
not extending NYDFS authority to businesses which are not subject to
NYDFS authority under either state or Federal law.

2) We strongly recommend that the NYDFS abandon licensing as the
primary regulation mechanism for virtual currency businesses which are
not subject to regulation as money transmitters, and instead work with
the Attorney General to improve investor education and aggressively
combat fraud using the Martin Act.  In cases where there is suspected
money laundering and illegal activity, we believe that the best
approach is to work with the Federal government and agencies such as
FinCEN to develop a single national standard.

An aggressive anti-fraud program under the Martin Act imposes no few
regulatory burdens on most virtual currency businesses outside of the
state of New York while advancing a legitimate state interest of
consumer protection, and unlike the licensing system proposed is
consistent with the "dormant commerce clause."  In addition, it is
consist with New York state law and provides both legal certainy and
soundness for virtual currency regulation.

With respect to anti-money laundering, virtual currency businesses
doing business with or in the United States are already required to
comply with the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act and associated money
laundering provisions.  Rather add to the regulatory burden, we
believe that it is wisest to use existing regulations and laws rather
than create new ones.

We believe that most virtual currency businesses are honest and
well-meaning people who share the goal with regulators to create a
vibrant and sound system of virtual currency.  We also believe that
regulatory activities should be focused on eliminated and punishing
the few bad actors which seek to defraud or commit illegal activities
against residents of the state of New York.  Accordingly we believe
that the proper regulatory mechanism is not through a licensing
mechanism which imposes burdens on the honest, but through criminal
and civil fraud sanctions which impose burdens on the dishonest, and
to not to create new regulatory mechanisms but to use existing onces.

Although we strongly disagree with the approach taken by the NYDFS, we
believe that we share common goals with the NYDFS.  We hope that are
comments are taken seriously and look forward to cooperating with
NYDFS in any way possible.


Sincerely,



Joseph Chen-Yu Wang
Chief Scientist
Bitquant Research Laboratories (Asia) Ltd.


